# Social Network Analysis

Papers related Social Network Analysis.

## Twitter

List of papers that worked on Twitter:

1. Forecasting of Events by Tweet Data Mining. (2013) [[Abstract](#paperid0)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1310.3499v1)]
1. A Genetic Algorithm to Optimize a Tweet for Retweetability. (2014) [[Abstract](#paperid1)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1401.4857v1)]
1. We Tweet Like We Talk and Other Interesting Observations: An Analysis of English Communication Modalities. (2014) [[Abstract](#paperid2)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1403.0531v1)]
1. A Clustering Analysis of Tweet Length and its Relation to Sentiment. (2014) [[Abstract](#paperid3)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1406.3287v3)]
1. Classifying Tweet Level Judgements of Rumours in Social Media. (2015) [[Abstract](#paperid4)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.00468v2)]
1. TGSum: Build Tweet Guided Multi-Document Summarization Dataset. (2015) [[Abstract](#paperid5)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.08417v1)]
1. Tweet2Vec: Character-Based Distributed Representations for Social Media. (2016) [[Abstract](#paperid6)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1605.03481v2)]
1. Tweet Acts: A Speech Act Classifier for Twitter. (2016) [[Abstract](#paperid7)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1605.05156v1)]
1. Tweet2Vec: Learning Tweet Embeddings Using Character-level CNN-LSTM Encoder-Decoder. (2016) [[Abstract](#paperid8)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.07514v1)]
1. Sentiment Analysis for Twitter : Going Beyond Tweet Text. (2016) [[Abstract](#paperid9)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09441v1)]
1. Improving Tweet Representations using Temporal and User Context. (2016) [[Abstract](#paperid10)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.06062v1)]
1. What the Language You Tweet Says About Your Occupation. (2017) [[Abstract](#paperid11)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06233v1)]
1. Character-based Neural Embeddings for Tweet Clustering. (2017) [[Abstract](#paperid12)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.05123v2)]
1. Interpretation of Semantic Tweet Representations. (2017) [[Abstract](#paperid13)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.00898v2)]
1. Context-Aware Attention for Understanding Twitter Abuse. (2018) [[Abstract](#paperid14)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.08726v2)]
1. A Tweet Dataset Annotated for Named Entity Recognition and Stance Detection. (2019) [[Abstract](#paperid15)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.04787v2)]
1. When a Tweet is Actually Sexist. A more Comprehensive Classification of Different Online Harassment Categories and The Challenges in NLP. (2019) [[Abstract](#paperid16)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10584v1)]
1. Bidirectional Recurrent Models for Offensive Tweet Classification. (2019) [[Abstract](#paperid17)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.08808v1)]
1. Deep Learning and Word Embeddings for Tweet Classification for Crisis Response. (2019) [[Abstract](#paperid18)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.11024v1)]
1. Multitask Learning for Blackmarket Tweet Detection. (2019) [[Abstract](#paperid19)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04072v1)]
1. Linking Physicians to Medical Research Results via Knowledge Graph Embeddings and Twitter. (2019) [[Abstract](#paperid20)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02571v3)]
1. A Deep Learning Approach for Tweet Classification and Rescue Scheduling for Effective Disaster Management. (2019) [[Abstract](#paperid21)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.01456v1)]
1. Few-shot tweet detection in emerging disaster events. (2019) [[Abstract](#paperid22)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.02290v1)]
1. Correlated Feature Selection for Tweet Spam Classification using Artificial Neural Networks. (2019) [[Abstract](#paperid23)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.05495v2)]
1. Simultaneous Identification of Tweet Purpose and Position. (2019) [[Abstract](#paperid24)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.00051v1)]
1. Evidence of distrust and disorientation towards immunization on online social media after contrasting political communication on vaccines. Results from an analysis of Twitter data in Italy. (2019) [[Abstract](#paperid25)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.00846v3)]
1. On Identifying Hashtags in Disaster Twitter Data. (2020) [[Abstract](#paperid26)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.01323v1)]
1. Investigating Classification Techniques with Feature Selection For Intention Mining From Twitter Feed. (2020) [[Abstract](#paperid27)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.10380v1)]
1. A Kernel of Truth: Determining Rumor Veracity on Twitter by Diffusion Pattern Alone. (2020) [[Abstract](#paperid28)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.00850v2)]
1. Twitter Bot Detection Using Bidirectional Long Short-term Memory Neural Networks and Word Embeddings. (2020) [[Abstract](#paperid29)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.01336v1)]
1. Semantic Search of Memes on Twitter. (2020) [[Abstract](#paperid30)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.01462v2)]
1. Multilingual Twitter Corpus and Baselines for Evaluating Demographic Bias in Hate Speech Recognition. (2020) [[Abstract](#paperid31)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.10361v2)]
1. An Information Diffusion Approach to Rumor Propagation and Identification on Twitter. (2020) [[Abstract](#paperid32)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.11104v1)]
1. A multi-layer approach to disinformation detection on Twitter. (2020) [[Abstract](#paperid33)] [[Arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.12612v1)]

## Abstracts

### 2013 | Forecasting of Events by Tweet Data Mining <a id="paperid0"></a>

This paper describes the analysis of quantitative characteristics of frequentsets and association rules in the posts of Twitter microblogs related todifferent event discussions. For the analysis, we used a theory of frequentsets, association rules and a theory of formal concept analysis. We revealedthe frequent sets and association rules which characterize the semanticrelations between the concepts of analyzed subjects. The support of somefrequent sets reaches its global maximum before the expected event but withsome time delay. Such frequent sets may be considered as predictive markersthat characterize the significance of expected events for blogosphere users. Weshowed that the time dynamics of confidence in some revealed association rulescan also have predictive characteristics. Exceeding a certain threshold may bea signal for corresponding reaction in the society within the time intervalbetween the maximum and the probable coming of an event. In this paper, weconsidered two types of events: the Olympic tennis tournament final in London,2012 and the prediction of Eurovision 2013 winner.

### 2014 | A Genetic Algorithm to Optimize a Tweet for Retweetability <a id="paperid1"></a>

Twitter is a popular microblogging platform. When users send out messages,other users have the ability to forward these messages to their own subgraph.Most research focuses on increasing retweetability from a node's perspective.Here, we center on improving message style to increase the chance of a messagebeing forwarded. To this end, we simulate an artificial Twitter-like networkwith nodes deciding deterministically on retweeting a message or not. A geneticalgorithm is used to optimize message composition, so that the reach of amessage is increased. When analyzing the algorithm's runtime behavior across aset of different node types, we find that the algorithm consistently succeedsin significantly improving the retweetability of a message.

### 2014 | We Tweet Like We Talk and Other Interesting Observations: An Analysis of English Communication Modalities <a id="paperid2"></a>

Modalities of communication for human beings are gradually increasing innumber with the advent of new forms of technology. Many human beings canreadily transition between these different forms of communication with littleor no effort, which brings about the question: How similar are these differentcommunication modalities? To understand technology$\text{'}$s influence onEnglish communication, four different corpora were analyzed and compared:Writing from Books using the 1-grams database from the Google Books project,Twitter, IRC Chat, and transcribed Talking. Multi-word confusion matricesrevealed that Talking has the most similarity when compared to the other modesof communication, while 1-grams were the least similar form of communicationanalyzed. Based on the analysis of word usage, word usage frequencydistributions, and word class usage, among other things, Talking is also themost similar to Twitter and IRC Chat. This suggests that communicating usingTwitter and IRC Chat evolved from Talking rather than Writing. When wecommunicate online, even though we are writing, we do not Tweet or Chat how wewrite books; we Tweet and Chat how we Speak. Nonfiction and Fiction writingwere clearly differentiable from our analysis with Twitter and Chat being muchmore similar to Fiction than Nonfiction writing. These hypotheses were thentested using author and journalists Cory Doctorow. Mr. Doctorow$\text{'}$sWriting, Twitter usage, and Talking were all found to have very similarvocabulary usage patterns as the amalgamized populations, as long as thewriting was Fiction. However, Mr. Doctorow$\text{'}$s Nonfiction writing isdifferent from 1-grams and other collected Nonfiction writings. This data couldperhaps be used to create more entertaining works of Nonfiction.

### 2014 | A Clustering Analysis of Tweet Length and its Relation to Sentiment <a id="paperid3"></a>

Sentiment analysis of Twitter data is performed. The researcher has made thefollowing contributions via this paper: (1) an innovative method for derivingsentiment score dictionaries using an existing sentiment dictionary as seedwords is explored, and (2) an analysis of clustered tweet sentiment scoresbased on tweet length is performed.

### 2015 | Classifying Tweet Level Judgements of Rumours in Social Media <a id="paperid4"></a>

Social media is a rich source of rumours and corresponding communityreactions. Rumours reflect different characteristics, some shared and someindividual. We formulate the problem of classifying tweet level judgements ofrumours as a supervised learning task. Both supervised and unsupervised domainadaptation are considered, in which tweets from a rumour are classified on thebasis of other annotated rumours. We demonstrate how multi-task learning helpsachieve good results on rumours from the 2011 England riots.

### 2015 | TGSum: Build Tweet Guided Multi-Document Summarization Dataset <a id="paperid5"></a>

The development of summarization research has been significantly hampered bythe costly acquisition of reference summaries. This paper proposes an effectiveway to automatically collect large scales of news-related multi-documentsummaries with reference to social media's reactions. We utilize two types ofsocial labels in tweets, i.e., hashtags and hyper-links. Hashtags are used tocluster documents into different topic sets. Also, a tweet with a hyper-linkoften highlights certain key points of the corresponding document. Wesynthesize a linked document cluster to form a reference summary which cancover most key points. To this aim, we adopt the ROUGE metrics to measure thecoverage ratio, and develop an Integer Linear Programming solution to discoverthe sentence set reaching the upper bound of ROUGE. Since we allow summarysentences to be selected from both documents and high-quality tweets, thegenerated reference summaries could be abstractive. Both informativeness andreadability of the collected summaries are verified by manual judgment. Inaddition, we train a Support Vector Regression summarizer on DUC genericmulti-document summarization benchmarks. With the collected data as extratraining resource, the performance of the summarizer improves a lot on all thetest sets. We release this dataset for further research.

### 2016 | Tweet2Vec: Character-Based Distributed Representations for Social Media <a id="paperid6"></a>

Text from social media provides a set of challenges that can causetraditional NLP approaches to fail. Informal language, spelling errors,abbreviations, and special characters are all commonplace in these posts,leading to a prohibitively large vocabulary size for word-level approaches. Wepropose a character composition model, tweet2vec, which finds vector-spacerepresentations of whole tweets by learning complex, non-local dependencies incharacter sequences. The proposed model outperforms a word-level baseline atpredicting user-annotated hashtags associated with the posts, doingsignificantly better when the input contains many out-of-vocabulary words orunusual character sequences. Our tweet2vec encoder is publicly available.

### 2016 | Tweet Acts: A Speech Act Classifier for Twitter <a id="paperid7"></a>

Speech acts are a way to conceptualize speech as action. This holds true forcommunication on any platform, including social media platforms such asTwitter. In this paper, we explored speech act recognition on Twitter bytreating it as a multi-class classification problem. We created a taxonomy ofsix speech acts for Twitter and proposed a set of semantic and syntacticfeatures. We trained and tested a logistic regression classifier using a dataset of manually labelled tweets. Our method achieved a state-of-the-artperformance with an average F1 score of more than $0.70$. We also exploredclassifiers with three different granularities (Twitter-wide, type-specific andtopic-specific) in order to find the right balance between generalization andoverfitting for our task.

### 2016 | Tweet2Vec: Learning Tweet Embeddings Using Character-level CNN-LSTM Encoder-Decoder <a id="paperid8"></a>

We present Tweet2Vec, a novel method for generating general-purpose vectorrepresentation of tweets. The model learns tweet embeddings usingcharacter-level CNN-LSTM encoder-decoder. We trained our model on 3 million,randomly selected English-language tweets. The model was evaluated using twomethods: tweet semantic similarity and tweet sentiment categorization,outperforming the previous state-of-the-art in both tasks. The evaluationsdemonstrate the power of the tweet embeddings generated by our model forvarious tweet categorization tasks. The vector representations generated by ourmodel are generic, and hence can be applied to a variety of tasks. Though themodel presented in this paper is trained on English-language tweets, the methodpresented can be used to learn tweet embeddings for different languages.

### 2016 | Sentiment Analysis for Twitter : Going Beyond Tweet Text <a id="paperid9"></a>

Analysing sentiment of tweets is important as it helps to determine theusers' opinion. Knowing people's opinion is crucial for several purposesstarting from gathering knowledge about customer base, e-governance,campaigning and many more. In this report, we aim to develop a system to detectthe sentiment from tweets. We employ several linguistic features along withsome other external sources of information to detect the sentiment of a tweet.We show that augmenting the 140 character-long tweet with information harvestedfrom external urls shared in the tweet as well as Social Media featuresenhances the sentiment prediction accuracy significantly.

### 2016 | Improving Tweet Representations using Temporal and User Context <a id="paperid10"></a>

In this work we propose a novel representation learning model which computessemantic representations for tweets accurately. Our model systematicallyexploits the chronologically adjacent tweets ('context') from users' Twittertimelines for this task. Further, we make our model user-aware so that it cando well in modeling the target tweet by exploiting the rich knowledge about theuser such as the way the user writes the post and also summarizing the topicson which the user writes. We empirically demonstrate that the proposed modelsoutperform the state-of-the-art models in predicting the user profileattributes like spouse, education and job by 19.66%, 2.27% and 2.22%respectively.

### 2017 | What the Language You Tweet Says About Your Occupation <a id="paperid11"></a>

Many aspects of people's lives are proven to be deeply connected to theirjobs. In this paper, we first investigate the distinct characteristics of majoroccupation categories based on tweets. From multiple social media platforms, wegather several types of user information. From users' LinkedIn webpages, welearn their proficiencies. To overcome the ambiguity of self-reportedinformation, a soft clustering approach is applied to extract occupations fromcrowd-sourced data. Eight job categories are extracted, including Marketing,Administrator, Start-up, Editor, Software Engineer, Public Relation, OfficeClerk, and Designer. Meanwhile, users' posts on Twitter provide cues forunderstanding their linguistic styles, interests, and personalities. Ourresults suggest that people of different jobs have unique tendencies in certainlanguage styles and interests. Our results also clearly reveal distinctivelevels in terms of Big Five Traits for different jobs. Finally, a classifier isbuilt to predict job types based on the features extracted from tweets. A highaccuracy indicates a strong discrimination power of language features for jobprediction task.

### 2017 | Character-based Neural Embeddings for Tweet Clustering <a id="paperid12"></a>

In this paper we show how the performance of tweet clustering can be improvedby leveraging character-based neural networks. The proposed approach overcomesthe limitations related to the vocabulary explosion in the word-based modelsand allows for the seamless processing of the multilingual content. Ourevaluation results and code are available on-line at

### 2017 | Interpretation of Semantic Tweet Representations <a id="paperid13"></a>

Research in analysis of microblogging platforms is experiencing a renewedsurge with a large number of works applying representation learning models forapplications like sentiment analysis, semantic textual similarity computation,hashtag prediction, etc. Although the performance of the representationlearning models has been better than the traditional baselines for such tasks,little is known about the elementary properties of a tweet encoded within theserepresentations, or why particular representations work better for certaintasks. Our work presented here constitutes the first step in opening theblack-box of vector embeddings for tweets. Traditional feature engineeringmethods for high-level applications have exploited various elementaryproperties of tweets. We believe that a tweet representation is effective foran application because it meticulously encodes the application-specificelementary properties of tweets. To understand the elementary propertiesencoded in a tweet representation, we evaluate the representations on theaccuracy to which they can model each of those properties such as tweet length,presence of particular words, hashtags, mentions, capitalization, etc. Oursystematic extensive study of nine supervised and four unsupervised tweetrepresentations against most popular eight textual and five social elementaryproperties reveal that Bi-directional LSTMs (BLSTMs) and Skip-Thought Vectors(STV) best encode the textual and social properties of tweets respectively.FastText is the best model for low resource settings, providing very littledegradation with reduction in embedding size. Finally, we draw interestinginsights by correlating the model performance obtained for elementary propertyprediction tasks with the highlevel downstream applications.

### 2018 | Context-Aware Attention for Understanding Twitter Abuse <a id="paperid14"></a>

The original goal of any social media platform is to facilitate users toindulge in healthy and meaningful conversations. But more often than not, ithas been found that it becomes an avenue for wanton attacks. We want toalleviate this issue and hence we try to provide a detailed analysis of howabusive behavior can be monitored in Twitter. The complexity of the naturallanguage constructs makes this task challenging. We show how applyingcontextual attention to Long Short Term Memory networks help us give near stateof art results on multiple benchmarks abuse detection data sets from Twitter.

### 2019 | A Tweet Dataset Annotated for Named Entity Recognition and Stance Detection <a id="paperid15"></a>

Annotated datasets in different domains are critical for many supervisedlearning-based solutions to related problems and for the evaluation of theproposed solutions. Topics in natural language processing (NLP) similarlyrequire annotated datasets to be used for such purposes. In this paper, wetarget at two NLP problems, named entity recognition and stance detection, andpresent the details of a tweet dataset in Turkish annotated for named entityand stance information. Within the course of the current study, both the namedentity and stance annotations of the included tweets are made publiclyavailable, although previously the dataset has been publicly shared with stanceannotations only. We believe that this dataset will be useful for uncoveringthe possible relationships between named entity recognition and stancedetection in tweets.

### 2019 | When a Tweet is Actually Sexist. A more Comprehensive Classification of Different Online Harassment Categories and The Challenges in NLP <a id="paperid16"></a>

Sexism is very common in social media and makes the boundaries of freedomtighter for feminist and female users. There is still no comprehensiveclassification of sexism attracting natural language processing techniques.Categorizing sexism in social media in the categories of hostile or benevolentsexism are so general that simply ignores the other types of sexism happeningin these media. This paper proposes a more comprehensive and in-depthcategories of online harassment in social media e.g. twitter into the followingcategories, "Indirect harassment", "Information threat", "sexual harassment","Physical harassment" and "Not sexist" and address the challenge of labelingthem along with presenting the classification result of the categories. It ispreliminary work applying machine learning to learn the concept of sexism anddistinguishes itself by looking at more precise categories of sexism in socialmedia.

### 2019 | Bidirectional Recurrent Models for Offensive Tweet Classification <a id="paperid17"></a>

In this paper we propose four deep recurrent architectures to tackle the taskof offensive tweet detection as well as further classification into targetingand subject of said targeting. Our architectures are based on LSTMs and GRUs,we present a simple bidirectional LSTM as a baseline system and then furtherincrease the complexity of the models by adding convolutional layers andimplementing a split-process-merge architecture with LSTM and GRU asprocessors. Multiple pre-processing techniques were also investigated. Thevalidation F1-score results from each model are presented for the threesubtasks as well as the final F1-score performance on the private competitiontest set. It was found that model complexity did not necessarily yield betterresults. Our best-performing model was also the simplest, a bidirectional LSTM;closely followed by a two-branch bidirectional LSTM and GRU architecture.

### 2019 | Deep Learning and Word Embeddings for Tweet Classification for Crisis Response <a id="paperid18"></a>

Tradition tweet classification models for crisis response focus onconvolutional layers and domain-specific word embeddings. In this paper, westudy the application of different neural networks with general-purpose anddomain-specific word embeddings to investigate their ability to improve theperformance of tweet classification models. We evaluate four tweetclassification models on CrisisNLP dataset and obtain comparable results whichindicates that general-purpose word embedding such as GloVe can be used insteadof domain-specific word embedding especially with Bi-LSTM where resultsreported the highest performance of 62.04% F1 score.

### 2019 | Multitask Learning for Blackmarket Tweet Detection <a id="paperid19"></a>

Online social media platforms have made the world more connected than everbefore, thereby making it easier for everyone to spread their content across awide variety of audiences. Twitter is one such popular platform where peoplepublish tweets to spread their messages to everyone. Twitter allows users toRetweet other users' tweets in order to broadcast it to their network. The moreretweets a particular tweet gets, the faster it spreads. This createsincentives for people to obtain artificial growth in the reach of their tweetsby using certain blackmarket services to gain inorganic appraisals for theircontent.

### 2019 | Linking Physicians to Medical Research Results via Knowledge Graph Embeddings and Twitter <a id="paperid20"></a>

Informing professionals about the latest research results in their field is aparticularly important task in the field of health care, since any developmentin this field directly improves the health status of the patients. Meanwhile,social media is an infrastructure that allows public instant sharing ofinformation, thus it has recently become popular in medical applications. Inthis study, we apply Multi Distance Knowledge Graph Embeddings (MDE) to linkphysicians and surgeons to the latest medical breakthroughs that are shared asthe research results on Twitter. Our study shows that using this methodphysicians can be informed about the new findings in their field given thatthey have an account dedicated to their profession.

### 2019 | A Deep Learning Approach for Tweet Classification and Rescue Scheduling for Effective Disaster Management <a id="paperid21"></a>

It is a challenging and complex task to acquire information from differentregions of a disaster-affected area in a timely fashion. The extensive spreadand reach of social media and networks allow people to share information inreal-time. However, the processing of social media data and gathering ofvaluable information require a series of operations such as (1) processing eachspecific tweet for a text classification, (2) possible location determinationof people needing help based on tweets, and (3) priority calculations of rescuetasks based on the classification of tweets. These are three primary challengesin developing an effective rescue scheduling operation using social media data.In this paper, first, we propose a deep learning model combining attentionbased Bi-directional Long Short-Term Memory (BLSTM) and Convolutional NeuralNetwork (CNN) to classify the tweets under different categories. We usepre-trained crisis word vectors and global vectors for word representation(GLoVe) for capturing semantic meaning from tweets. Next, we perform featureengineering to create an auxiliary feature map which dramatically increases themodel accuracy. In our experiments using real data sets from Hurricanes Harveyand Irma, it is observed that our proposed approach performs better compared toother classification methods based on Precision, Recall, F1-score, andAccuracy, and is highly effective to determine the correct priority of a tweet.Furthermore, to evaluate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposedclassification model a merged dataset comprises of 4 different datasets fromCrisisNLP and another 15 different disasters data from CrisisLex are used.Finally, we develop an adaptive multitask hybrid scheduling algorithmconsidering resource constraints to perform an effective rescue schedulingoperation considering different rescue priorities.

### 2019 | Few-shot tweet detection in emerging disaster events <a id="paperid22"></a>

Social media sources can provide crucial information in crisis situations,but discovering relevant messages is not trivial. Methods have so far focusedon universal detection models for all kinds of crises or for certain crisistypes (e.g. floods). Event-specific models could implement a more focusedsearch area, but collecting data and training new models for a crisis that isalready in progress is costly and may take too much time for a prompt response.As a compromise, manually collecting a small amount of example messages isfeasible. Few-shot models can generalize to unseen classes with such a smallhandful of examples, and do not need be trained anew for each event. We comparehow few-shot approaches (matching networks and prototypical networks) performfor this task. Since this is essentially a one-class problem, we alsodemonstrate how a modified one-class version of prototypical models can be usedfor this application.

### 2019 | Correlated Feature Selection for Tweet Spam Classification using Artificial Neural Networks <a id="paperid23"></a>

Identification of spam messages is a very challenging task for socialnetworks due to its large size and complex nature. The purpose of this paper isto undertake the analysis of spamming on Twitter. To classify spams efficientlyit is necessary to first understand the features of the spam tweets as well asidentify attributes of the spammer. We extract both tweet based features anduser based features for our analysis and observe the correlation between thesefeatures. This step is necessary as we can reduce the training time if wecombine the features that are highly correlated. To perform our analysis we useartificial neural networks and train the model to classify the tweets as spamor non-spam. Using Correlational Artificial Neural Network gives us the highestaccuracy of 97.57\% when compared with four other classifiers SVM, Kernel SVM,K Nearest Neighbours and Artificial Neural Network.

### 2019 | Simultaneous Identification of Tweet Purpose and Position <a id="paperid24"></a>

Tweet classification has attracted considerable attention recently. Most ofthe existing work on tweet classification focuses on topic classification,which classifies tweets into several predefined categories, and sentimentclassification, which classifies tweets into positive, negative and neutral.Since tweets are different from conventional text in that they generally are oflimited length and contain informal, irregular or new words, so it is difficultto determine user intention to publish a tweet and user attitude towardscertain topic. In this paper, we aim to simultaneously classify tweet purpose,i.e., the intention for user to publish a tweet, and position, i.e.,supporting, opposing or being neutral to a given topic. By transforming thisproblem to a multi-label classification problem, a multi-label classificationmethod with post-processing is proposed. Experiments on real-world data setsdemonstrate the effectiveness of this method and the results outperform theindividual classification methods.

### 2019 | Evidence of distrust and disorientation towards immunization on online social media after contrasting political communication on vaccines. Results from an analysis of Twitter data in Italy <a id="paperid25"></a>

Background. Recently, In Italy the vaccination coverage for keyimmunizations, as MMR, has been declining, with measles outbreaks. In 2017, theItalian Government expanded the number of mandatory immunizations establishingpenalties for families of unvaccinated children. During the 2018 electionscampaign, immunization policy entered the political debate, with the governmentaccusing oppositions of fuelling vaccine scepticism. A new governmentestablished in 2018 temporarily relaxed penalties and announced theintroduction of flexibility.

### 2020 | On Identifying Hashtags in Disaster Twitter Data <a id="paperid26"></a>

Tweet hashtags have the potential to improve the search for informationduring disaster events. However, there is a large number of disaster-relatedtweets that do not have any user-provided hashtags. Moreover, only a smallnumber of tweets that contain actionable hashtags are useful for disasterresponse. To facilitate progress on automatic identification (or extraction) ofdisaster hashtags for Twitter data, we construct a unique dataset ofdisaster-related tweets annotated with hashtags useful for filtering actionableinformation. Using this dataset, we further investigate Long Short TermMemory-based models within a Multi-Task Learning framework. The best performingmodel achieves an F1-score as high as 92.22%. The dataset, code, and otherresources are available on Github.

### 2020 | Investigating Classification Techniques with Feature Selection For Intention Mining From Twitter Feed <a id="paperid27"></a>

In the last decade, social networks became most popular medium forcommunication and interaction. As an example, micro-blogging service Twitterhas more than 200 million registered users who exchange more than 65 millionposts per day. Users express their thoughts, ideas, and even their intentionsthrough these tweets. Most of the tweets are written informally and often inslang language, that contains misspelt and abbreviated words. This paperinvestigates the problem of selecting features that affect extracting user'sintention from Twitter feeds based on text mining techniques. It starts bypresenting the method we used to construct our own dataset from extractedTwitter feeds. Following that, we present two techniques of feature selectionfollowed by classification. In the first technique, we use Information Gain asa one-phase feature selection, followed by supervised classificationalgorithms. In the second technique, we use a hybrid approach based on forwardfeature selection algorithm in which two feature selection techniques employedfollowed by classification algorithms. We examine these two techniques withfour classification algorithms. We evaluate them using our own dataset, and wecritically review the results.

### 2020 | A Kernel of Truth: Determining Rumor Veracity on Twitter by Diffusion Pattern Alone <a id="paperid28"></a>

Recent work in the domain of misinformation detection has leveraged richsignals in the text and user identities associated with content on socialmedia. But text can be strategically manipulated and accounts reopened underdifferent aliases, suggesting that these approaches are inherently brittle. Inthis work, we investigate an alternative modality that is naturally robust: thepattern in which information propagates. Can the veracity of an unverifiedrumor spreading online be discerned solely on the basis of its pattern ofdiffusion through the social network?

### 2020 | Twitter Bot Detection Using Bidirectional Long Short-term Memory Neural Networks and Word Embeddings <a id="paperid29"></a>

Twitter is a web application playing dual roles of online social networkingand micro-blogging. The popularity and open structure of Twitter have attracteda large number of automated programs, known as bots. Legitimate bots generate alarge amount of benign contextual content, i.e., tweets delivering news andupdating feeds, while malicious bots spread spam or malicious contents. Toassist human users in identifying who they are interacting with, this paperfocuses on the classification of human and spambot accounts on Twitter, byemploying recurrent neural networks, specifically bidirectional Long Short-termMemory (BiLSTM), to efficiently capture features across tweets. To the best ofour knowledge, our work is the first that develops a recurrent neural modelwith word embeddings to distinguish Twitter bots from human accounts, thatrequires no prior knowledge or assumption about users' profiles, friendshipnetworks, or historical behavior on the target account. Moreover, our modeldoes not require any handcrafted features. The preliminary simulation resultsare very encouraging. Experiments on the cresci-2017 dataset show that ourapproach can achieve competitive performance compared with existingstate-of-the-art bot detection systems.

### 2020 | Semantic Search of Memes on Twitter <a id="paperid30"></a>

Memes are becoming a useful source of data for analyzing behavior on socialmedia. However, a problem to tackle is how to correctly identify a meme. As thenumber of memes published every day on social media is huge, there is a needfor automatic methods for classifying and searching in large meme datasets.This paper proposes and compares several methods for automatically classifyingimages as memes. Also, we propose a method that allows us to implement a systemfor retrieving memes from a dataset using a textual query. We experimentallyevaluate the methods using a large dataset of memes collected from Twitterusers in Chile, which was annotated by a group of experts. Though some of theevaluated methods are effective, there is still room for improvement.

### 2020 | Multilingual Twitter Corpus and Baselines for Evaluating Demographic Bias in Hate Speech Recognition <a id="paperid31"></a>

Existing research on fairness evaluation of document classification modelsmainly uses synthetic monolingual data without ground truth for authordemographic attributes. In this work, we assemble and publish a multilingualTwitter corpus for the task of hate speech detection with inferred four authordemographic factors: age, country, gender and race/ethnicity. The corpus coversfive languages: English, Italian, Polish, Portuguese and Spanish. We evaluatethe inferred demographic labels with a crowdsourcing platform, Figure Eight. Toexamine factors that can cause biases, we take an empirical analysis ofdemographic predictability on the English corpus. We measure the performance offour popular document classifiers and evaluate the fairness and bias of thebaseline classifiers on the author-level demographic attributes.

### 2020 | An Information Diffusion Approach to Rumor Propagation and Identification on Twitter <a id="paperid32"></a>

With the increasing use of online social networks as a source of news andinformation, the propensity for a rumor to disseminate widely and quickly posesa great concern, especially in disaster situations where users do not haveenough time to fact-check posts before making the informed decision to react toa post that appears to be credible. In this study, we explore the propagationpattern of rumors on Twitter by exploring the dynamics of microscopic-levelmisinformation spread, based on the latent message and user interactionattributes. We perform supervised learning for feature selection andprediction. Experimental results with real-world data sets give the models'prediction accuracy at about 90\% for the diffusion of both True and Falsetopics. Our findings confirm that rumor cascades run deeper and that rumormasked as news, and messages that incite fear, will diffuse faster than othermessages. We show that the models for True and False message propagation differsignificantly, both in the prediction parameters and in the message featuresthat govern the diffusion. Finally, we show that the diffusion pattern is animportant metric in identifying the credibility of a tweet.

### 2020 | A multi-layer approach to disinformation detection on Twitter <a id="paperid33"></a>

We tackle the problem of classifying news articles pertaining todisinformation vs mainstream news by solely inspecting their diffusionmechanisms on Twitter. Our technique is inherently simple compared to existingtext-based approaches, as it allows to by-pass the multiple levels ofcomplexity which are found in news content (e.g. grammar, syntax, style). Weemploy a multi-layer representation of Twitter diffusion networks, and wecompute for each layer a set of global network features which quantifydifferent aspects of the sharing process. Experimental results with twolarge-scale datasets, corresponding to diffusion cascades of news sharedrespectively in the United States and Italy, show that a simple LogisticRegression model is able to classify disinformation vs mainstream networks withhigh accuracy (AUROC up to 94%), also when considering the political bias ofdifferent sources in the classification task. We also highlight differences inthe sharing patterns of the two news domains which appear to becountry-independent. We believe that our network-based approach provides usefulinsights which pave the way to the future development of a system to detectmisleading and harmful information spreading on social media.
